---
layout: post
title:  "A descriptive title"
author: Prof. Jean Fan
jhed: jfan9
categories: [ HW1 ]
image: homework/hw1/hw1_jfan9.png
featured: false
---

### 1. What data types are you visualizing?
I am visualizing quantitative data of the expression count of the ERBB2 gene for each cell, quantitative data of the area for each cell, and spatial data regarding the x,y centroid positions for each cell.

### 2. What data encodings (geometric primitives and visual channels) are you using to visualize these data types?
I am using the geometric primitive of points to represent each cell. To encode expression count of the ERBB2 gene, I am using the visual channel of position along the y axis. To encode the area for each cell, I am using the visual channel of size. To encode the spatial x position, I am using the visual channel of position along the x axis. To encode the spatial y position, I am using the visual channel of saturation going from an unsaturated lightgrey to a saturated red.

### 3. What about the data are you trying to make salient through this data visualization? 
My data visualization seeks to make more salient the relationship between ERBB2 expression and the cell area. 

### 4. What Gestalt principles or knowledge about perceptiveness of visual encodings are you using to accomplish this?
I don't know. 

### 5. Code (paste your code in between the ``` symbols)

```r
file <- '~/Desktop/genomic-data-visualization-2025/data/pikachu.csv.gz'
data <- read.csv(file, row.names=1)

library(ggplot2)
ggplot(data, aes(x=aligned_x, y=ERBB2, col=cell_area, size=aligned_y)) + 
  scale_colour_gradient(low = 'lightgrey', high='red') + 
  geom_point() +
  theme_minimal() 
```

(Please do not copy. I did not do a good job on this HW.)
